





of ⁨1⁩




Andrew G. Gurik
andrewgurik@gmail.com (309) 868-4405 Ames, IA
Ag Leader Technology 2018 - present
Staff Software Engineer 2023 - present
● Lead a software engineering team to create the next generation of in-cab precision agriculture displays. Specifically, inventing a new 3D
geospatial mapping engine and UI using Qt3D and OpenGL, as well as general application improvements in an embedded linux
environment.
Senior Software Engineer 2021 - 2023
● Work on a Scrum team in a leadership role to design and maintain software for precision agriculture in-cab display and embedded
modules connected on a CAN bus (J1939).
● Created aftermarket precision nozzle-by-nozzle liquid application spraying system. This includes designing touch screen UI, CAN messaging
protocol, embedded architecture, and PID control systems.
● Leading a newly formed Scrum team in creating a next-generation precision agriculture product.
Software Engineer 2018 - 2021
● Work on a Scrum team to design and maintain software for precision agriculture in-cab display and embedded modules connected on a
CAN bus (J1939 & ISOBUS).
● Created an aftermarket precision high-speed planting system.
● Maintained existing product lines for planter downforce, ISOBUS dry spreader, etc.
Randstad Technologies 2017 - 2018
Software Engineer – (Caterpillar) Core Machine Software
● Continue the previous role with Caterpillar developing the new Virtual Platform ecosystem.
● Create Simulink, python, C#, and C++ tools to enable engineers to interact with the Virtual Platform ecosystem.
● Write high level tests for use across multiple applications within machine software.
● Implement a Google Test infrastructure for application-layer automated testing.
Caterpillar, Inc. 2013 - 2016
Software Engineer
Core Machine Software
● Create simulation of transmission control software in a Windows environment for development, testing, and machine performance
analysis.
● Expand the scope of the simulation environment from transmission controls to the machine application layer.
● Design architecture to generically support hundreds of top-layer applications across all Caterpillar product lines.
● Create Simulink, python, C#, and C++ tools to enable engineers to interact with this simulation environment.
● Create Google Test infrastructure for high-level automated testing.
● Integrate a virtual CAN Bus into the simulation.
Drivetrain Systems & Software - Large Mining Trucks, Quarry and Construction Trucks
● Create features for embedded software controlling hydraulic clutches in automatic transmissions for mining trucks.
● Work within multiple large codebases composed of both C and Simulink code on embedded systems communication using J1939.
● Learn under experienced Application Lead to implement features in current production and new products.
● Participate in migration from Clearcase to Git & Ivy source control.
● Application Lead for new Quarry and Construction Trucks projects.
● Facilitate communication between various testing and development teams located around the world.
● Create innovative workflows using simulation and software-in-loop testing.
Education
B.S. Electrical Engineering Iowa State University 2012
Software and Tools
● C++, C, OpenGL, QML, Qt Framework, Qt3D, GTest, gcc, CMake
● GIT, Perforce
